Summary of MOU 324 activities:

One of the requirements in this project was to provide an animation 
capability as a post-processor of simulation data from the Simulation
Model for Automobile Collisions(SMAC).

Consideration was given to developing an animation capability using the
tools available on the Silicon Graphics Integrated Workstation.  The SGI
machine provides a 3-D animation capability but would result in having
the simulator and animator on different machines with different operating
systems.  It was considered desirable to have the simulation, animation 
and other tools to display data in the same computer environment.

The National Automated Highway Systems Consortium(NAHSC) included a 
development effort aimed at developing tools to aid in determining the
feasibility of designing and developing an Automated Highway System(AHS).
One of the software tools developed was SmartAHS, a simulation capability
that can represent various proposed system designs for an AHS.  SmartAHS
was considered as a tool that could be used to generate and animate
simulations using the vehicle model represented in SMAC.  However, this
would have required the development of new, detailed SmartAHS vehicle types
that would replicate the behavior of SMAC vehicles.  This would have
been a time-consuming effort since the SmartAHS and SMAC designs are
very different and the new model would have to be validated to produce
nearly identical results.  The main difference in design is that SmartAHS
has an object-oriented design while SMAC has the older software design described
as a functional hierarchy.

Another tool developed as part of the NAHSC effort was a program to
generate animations of vehicles given specified vehicle movement
profiles.  This program(Carmma) was used as an animation tool for the
simulation data generated by SMAC.  This program was modified so that
simulations can be generated and animated on a curved or straight road.

It was necessary to develop an additional tool(Hwydata) to convert the
SMAC simulation data into the highway scenario data format required by
Carmma.  This program must be run after SMAC is run and before Carmma
is run.
